Name:   Bharath Murali
Email:  bmurali3@gatech.edu



Sentiment Analysis using Twitter Data

File (Script): SentimentAnalysis.py

               run as 
               Python SentimentAnalysis.py

Description:    The code learns Support Vector Machines using 'linear' kernel to classify test data. Scikit-learn's 
                LinearSVC provides a fast implementation for linear kernel SVMs. The features extracted from the text included 
                the Tf-idf matrix, a commonly used method to convert text into a vetor space. Scikit-learn;s TfidVectorizer
                provides a complete and convenient set of functions for this. In addition to this, TruncatedSVD, another class in
                scikit-learn is used to approximate the feature vectors to a lower dimension (100~500 dimensions). Applying various
                combinations of the the different parameters (including the slack variable C in SVM, principal component size in SVD
                truncation and usage of monograms or bigrams in the feature extraction stage) a best estimator was selected based on 
                the score

Implementation: The file movie-reviews-sentiment.tsv was split into 66% train data and the remaining as test data, The best estimator 
                was selected after 6-fold validation on the train data. This model was then trained with the whole train data set and 
                tested on the test set.

Results:        The best estimator was one that used both monograms and bigrams, having C=100 and principal components = 500. The accuracy
                of prediction validated by the test data was 73.86%.

Notes:          SVM implementation using the cvxopt library was attempted, but the memory requirement for solvin the constrained optimization problem
                was too high resulting in memory errors. If cvxopt libraries are not installed, the appropriate code will have to be commented
                in order to run the script. I apologise because minimum error handling was done.
